README for CC Mode 5.31
Current maintainers: Martin Stjernholm and Alan Mackenzie
Contact address    : bug-cc-mode@gnu.org

INTRODUCTION

    The canonical web location for all knowledge CC Mode is:

	<http://cc-mode.sourceforge.net/>

    Please read the cc-mode.texi manual for details on using CC Mode.
    This is available on-line from:

        <http://cc-mode.sourceforge.net/cc-mode.html>

    As of this writing (June 10, 2003), CC Mode currently works out of
    the box with XEmacs versions 19.15, 19.16, 20.3, 20.4, and 21.x,
    and with Emacs versions 19.34, 20.x, and 21.x.  (It will very
    likely work with later versions too, when they become available.)

MORE INFORMATION

    Check out the CC Mode web site for the latest information,
    updates, tips, installation and compatibility notes, etc. on using
    CC Mode.  The installation instructions given below are an excerpt
    of the on-line instructions.  If you have problems installing CC
    Mode, please check out the URL above before submitting a bug
    report.  Thanks!

    The MANIFEST file contains a description of all the files you
    should have gotten with this distribution.

MANUALS

    Preformatted versions of the manual in DVI, PostScript, and Info,
    are all available at the CC Mode web page.

    To build the manual yourself, you will need a recent Texinfo
    release (as of this writing, it's known to work with Texinfo 4.3
    but somewhat older releases might be ok too).  To build the Info
    manual, simply type:

        % makeinfo cc-mode.texi

    To make the DVI version, simply type:

        % texi2dvi cc-mode.texi

INSTALLATION

    Here is a quick guide for installing CC Mode.  For the latest
    information on installing CC Mode, please see the CC Mode web site
    given above.

  Byte Compiling

    It is highly recommended that you byte-compile CC Mode for
    performance reasons.  Running CC Mode non-byte-compiled is not
    supported.

    You can compile CC Mode in the same way as any other package.  To
    compile it from a running (X)Emacs session:

        M-0 M-x byte-recompile-directory RET /path/to/cc-mode RET

    To compile CC Mode from the shell:

        % cd /path/to/cc-mode
        % $(EMACS) -batch -no-site-file -q -f batch-byte-compile cc-*.el

    where $(EMACS) is either emacs or xemacs depending on the flavor
    you use.

    If you compile with XEmacs 19, you'll get a lot of warnings.  They
    can safely be ignored.

  Installing

    Put the compiled files somewhere (X)Emacs will find them, i.e. in
    some path that's in the load-path variable.  You must make sure
    they are found before any CC Mode files which are distributed with
    (X)Emacs.  A directory has higher precendence than all directories
    after it in the load-path list.

    If you're going to be using AWK Mode, insert the following line
    into your .emacs or init.el file:

        (autoload 'awk-mode "cc-mode" nil t)

    This will cause (X)Emacs to use the new AWK Mode for AWK files,
    rather than the older mode contained in the file awk-mode.elc.
    (But see the note below under "Compatibility Issues".)

    To test that you have things set up correctly, visit a C file and
    then type:

        M-x c-version RET
        => Using CC Mode version 5.XX

    where XX is the correct minor revision number.

  Compatibility Issues

    CC Mode should work fine with most versions of Emacs and XEmacs
    which aren't ancient (see the introduction above).

    However, in Emacs 19.34 the Custom library doesn't work with CC
    Mode, so the customizable variables support won't be compiled in
    there.  You need to get a later Custom library and make sure it's
    loaded when CC Mode is compiled to enable it.

    The new AWK Mode requires a feature (syntax-table text properties)
    which first appeared in Emacs 20.1 and XEmacs 21.4.  If you are
    still using an older version of (X)Emacs, CC Mode will revert to
    using the older AWK Mode which is distributed with (X)Emacs (from
    file awk-mode.elc) for AWK files, even when the autoload form (see
    above) appears in your .emacs or init.el file.  Upgrading your
    (X)Emacs is strongly recommended if this is the case.  You can
    check which AWK Mode you are running by displaying the mode
    documentation string with C-h m from an AWK buffer.  The newer
    mode's doc string contains "to submit a problem report, enter `C-c
    C-b'" near the top of the doc string where the older mode has
    "This is much like C mode except ....".

    For more details about interactions with different packages, see
    the CC Mode web page.
